---
title: Research on effective stimulated reservoir volume
date: 2020-12-01
---



<!--more-->

## Major Activities

A typical 3D dynamic fractured reservoir model consists of approximately 10 million active grid cells
containing detailed geological description of the reservoir. Due to the high amount of grid cells and the
current practical operating limit of any given Central Processing Unit, the energy required to robustly simulate
fractured reservoir dynamics is a challenging demand. It is often unprofitable to run complex fluid-flow and
fracture propagation simulations directly on an overly-intricate geological model for any reservoir. By
upscaling the 3D model, the average number of active grid cells in most simulation models can be reduced to
1% of the original value. However, it is apparent that with only 1% of active cells, attaining accurate
representations of the parent model becomes improbable. Depending on the reservoir model complexity,
especially for non-additive properties such as permeability, upscaling can yield even more uncertain results.
This is particularly true when evaluating more complex formations for unconventional exploration like the
Bakken and Wolfcamp Shale. For high uncertainty associated with any petroleum ventures, it is essential to
determine and integrate numerical and data approaches to effectively evaluate fractured reservoirs.


In the past, models consisting of a single, planar hydraulic fracture has been the primary component utilized
to analyze stimulation performance in conventional reservoirs. For ultra-low permeability reservoirs, a large
system of fracture networks must be generated by hydraulic fracturing to economically produce
hydrocarbons. Furthermore, for enhanced geothermal systems (EGS) in geothermal energy production, the
fractured reservoirs must contain an inter-connected system of pre-dominantly shear fractures. Hence, the
simplification of a single, planar hydraulic fracture model utilized by popular industry software is inadequate
to evaluate performance in most unconventional and geothermal reservoirs. The purpose of this research is
to develop of a novel framework for the dynamic characterization, prediction, and management of effective
stimulated reservoir volume for relevant applications (ESRV). Effective stimulated reservoir volume is
characterized by the following properties: volume, conductivity, contact area, and spatial distribution. These
ESRV properties are described by employing sources of available data such as: stimulation/production,
microseismic, tracer, well-logging, core samples, tiltmeter, fiber optic (Distributed Acoustic Sensing and
Distributed Temperature Sensing), etc. By leveraging the combination of existing model and available data,
the value of information obtained by any given monitoring technology for fractured reservoir applications are
maximized. The optimal integration of simulation model and monitoring data will be used to compensate for
the extensive computational demands in comprehensive numerical simulation. With this integration, hydraulic
fracture architecture, the use of surveillance technology, and injection schedules can be modified to minimize
completion cost and operational carbon footprint.

Project background and literature were researched starting September 2021 in order to define the project. The
ultimate objective is to develop a novel framework for the dynamic characterization, prediction, and
management of the effective stimulated reservoir volume (ESRV). Current simulation models and monitoring
technologies were reviewed, then ordered by fractured reservoir characteristics. The characteristics of were
classified in terms of volume, conductivity, area, and spatial distribution. A composite library was constructed
in February 2022 containing the simulation model, data sources, associated ESRV properties and applications.
By employing this library, any combinations of model and data can be selected to specifically assess ESRV
properties for a given application. For example, a combination of a fractal fracture network, microseismic,
and micro-deformation data can be used to evaluate the spatial distribution and connectivity of the fracture
network in unconventional hydrocarbon reservoirs.